pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html objectid="https://cdil.lib.uidaho.edu/images/palouse_sm.jpg" %} 

{% include feature/nav-menu.html sections="About CollectionBuilder CSV;About the About Page" %}

## About CollectionBuilder CSV

This demo collection features items from the University of Idaho Library's [Digital Collections](https://www.lib.uidaho.edu/digital/), and is build using [CollectionBuilder-CSV](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/collectionbuilder-csv).

CollectionBuilder-CSV is a "Stand Alone" template for creating digital collection and exhibit websites using Jekyll, given:

- a CSV of collection metadata
- a folder of images, PDFs, audio, or video files

Driven by your collection metadata, the template generates engaging visualizations to browse and explore your objects.
The resulting static site can be hosted on any basic web server.

[CollectionBuilder](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/) is an set of open source tools for creating digital collection and exhibit websites that are driven by metadata and powered by modern static web technology.
See [CB Docs](https://collectionbuilder.github.io/cb-docs/) for detailed information.

{% include feature/image.html objectid="demo_001" width="75" %} 

<!-- IMPORTANT!!! DELETE this comment and the include below when you are finished editing this page for your collection. The include below introduces about page features. They will show up on your collection's about page until you delete it.  -->
{% include cb/about_the_about.md %}

Commit message:

add new pages and layouts

pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

## About cb-oralhistory

**cb-oralhistory** is a mix of [CollectionBuilder-CSV](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/collectionbuilder-csv) and [Oral History as Data (OHD)](https://github.com/oralhistoryasdata/oralhistoryasdata.github.io). It's meant to serve as a starter repository for those wanting to build oral history collections with CollectionBuilder. 

The current demo site features a small mix of transcripts. Item pages are generated by a CSV metadata file that includes the display_template "transcript" as a field. 

## About Oral History as Data
Oral History as Data (OHD) provides a static web framework for users to publish and analyze coded oral history and qualitative interviews on the web. 

Oral History as Data was first built in 2018, coming out of work at the University of Idaho Library's [Center for Digital Inquiry and Learning (CD?L)](https://cdil.lib.uidaho.edu/). 
The framework served as the foundation for several digital humanities projects, including [Voices of Gay Rodeo](https://www.voicesofgayrodeo.com/), [Idaho Queered](https://www.lib.uidaho.edu/queered/), and [CTRL+Shift](https://ctrl-shift.org/). 

The look for OHD is different than CollectionBuilder. Check out the [a demo site](https://oralhistoryasdata.github.io/) to see the differences.

There is some [documentation](https://oralhistoryasdata.github.io/about.html#documentation) for OHD that might be helpful in this context. More fully developed documentation for this project is being developed, but there are several places linked here to get you started.

## About CollectionBuilder-CSV

CollectionBuilder-CSV is a robust and flexible "stand alone" template for creating digital collection and exhibit websites using Jekyll and a metadata CSV.
Driven by your collection metadata, the template generates engaging visualizations to browse and explore your objects.
The resulting static site can be hosted on any basic web server (or built automatically using GitHub Actions).

Visit the [CollectionBuilder Docs](https://collectionbuilder.github.io/cb-docs/) for step-by-step details for getting started and building collections!


<!-- IMPORTANT!!! DELETE this comment and the include below when you are finished editing this page for your collection. The include below introduces about page features. They will show up on your collection's about page until you delete it.  -->
{% include cb/about_the_about.md %}
