docs/cloud.md, before:

# Create Cloud Visualizations

## Built-in clouds

For simplicity, the default CB theme has two pre-configured cloud visualizations pre-configured named "subjects" and "locations". 
These can be easily controlled using variables in the `theme.yml` to generate clouds from any field(s) (not necessarily just a "subject" or "location" field). 

```
# Subject page
subjects-fields: subject;creator # set of fields separated by ; to be featured in the cloud
subjects-min: 1 # min size for subject cloud, too many terms = slow load time!
subjects-stopwords: # set of subjects separated by ; that will be removed from display, e.g. boxers;boxing

# Locations page
locations-fields: location # set of fields separated by ; to be featured in the cloud
locations-min: 1 # min size for subject cloud, too many terms = slow load time!
locations-stopwords: # set of subjects separated by ; that will be removed from display, e.g. boxers;boxing
```

These theme configuration options drive pre-made pages (with layout `subjects` and `locations` respectively), and use the layout value to add an _include via `foot.html` (which allows the theme values to be used).
Modifying the config settings can easily transform these two pages into clouds based on any metadata field.
These settings also create matching data outputs in the `/assets/data/` folder.

If `subjects-fields` or `locations-fields` is blank or commented out, the template will not build out the related cloud page or data, which saves build time. 
If you are developing a particularly large collection, you can comment out these options to make rebuild much quicker. 

Keep in mind these page stubs (`/subjects.html`, `/locations.html`) will also have to be present in "config-nav.csv" to show up in your navigation. 

## Cloud Layout and Front matter

Custom cloud pages can be easily created using the cloud layout and page front matter.
To the page front matter add: 

- `cloud-fields:`, with a value of a set of fields separated by `;` to be featured in the cloud.
- `cloud-min:` (optional), with a integer value such as `2`.
- `cloud-stopwords:` (optional), with a set of subjects separated by `;` that will be removed from display

For example, to create an Authors cloud page, create a file named `authors.md` in the "pages" folder. 
Edit the `authors.md` with this content:

```
---
title: Authors
layout: cloud
permalink: /authors.html
cloud-fields: creator
cloud-min: 
cloud-stopwords:
---

## Browse Authors

Example custom cloud page.
```

## Cloud include 

Clouds can also be added to any page using the `_include/js/cloud-js.html` include in the page stub content, with the variable `fields`, and optional variables `min` and `stopwords`. 
Cloud-js include assumes a div with `id="cloud"` exists on the page for the cloud to fill.
So putting them together, you can add a cloud anywhere in a page.
For example:

```
<div id="cloud" class="text-center my-4 bg-light border rounded p-2"></div>
{% include js/cloud-js.html fields="creator;publisher" min="2" stopwords="example;another" %}
```

Commit message:

simplify cloud layout use more complicated than expected!

docs/cloud.md, after:

# Create Cloud Visualizations

## Built-in clouds

For simplicity, the default CB theme has two pre-configured cloud visualization pages pre-configured named "Subjects" and "Locations". 
These can be configured using variables in the "_data/theme.yml" to generate clouds from any field(s) in your metadata (not necessarily just a "subject" or "location" field). 
The theme options look like:

```
# Subject page
subjects-fields: subject;creator # set of fields separated by ; to be featured in the cloud
subjects-min: 1 # min size for subject cloud, too many terms = slow load time!
subjects-stopwords: # set of subjects separated by ; that will be removed from display, e.g. boxers;boxing

# Locations page
locations-fields: location # set of fields separated by ; to be featured in the cloud
locations-min: 1 # min size for subject cloud, too many terms = slow load time!
locations-stopwords: # set of subjects separated by ; that will be removed from display, e.g. boxers;boxing
```

The files "pages/subjects.md" and "pages/locations.md" pull in these values to create the default cloud pages.
The settings also create matching data outputs in the "/assets/data/" folder.

If `subjects-fields` or `locations-fields` is blank or commented out, the template will not build out the related cloud page or data, which saves build time. 
If you are developing a particularly large collection, you can comment out these options to make rebuild much quicker. 

Keep in mind these page stubs (`/subjects.html`, `/locations.html`) will also have to be present in "config-nav.csv" to show up in your navigation, and to have the data files to show up in data download options. 

## Cloud Layout and Front matter

Custom cloud pages can be easily created using the cloud layout and page front matter.
Create a new page stub with standard front matter, and add these cloud values: 

- `cloud-fields:`, with a value of a set of fields separated by `;` to be featured in the cloud.
- `cloud-min:` (optional), with a integer value such as `2`.
- `cloud-stopwords:` (optional), with a set of terms separated by `;` that will be removed from display.

For example, to create an "Authors" cloud page, create a file named "authors.md" in the "pages" folder. 
Edit the "authors.md" with this front matter and content:

```
---
title: Authors
layout: cloud
permalink: /authors.html
cloud-fields: creator
cloud-min: 
cloud-stopwords:
---

## Browse Authors

Example custom cloud page.
```

## Cloud include 

Clouds can also be directly added to any page using the "_include/js/cloud-js.html" include in the page stub content.
This makes it possible to embed a cloud anywhere in other interpretive content pages. 

First, add a div with `id="cloud"` where you want the cloud to display.
Then below the div add the cloud-js include and provide the variable `fields`, and optionally variables `min` and `stopwords`. 

For example:

```
<div id="cloud" class="text-center my-4 bg-light border rounded p-2"></div>
{% include js/cloud-js.html fields="creator;publisher" min=2 stopwords="example;another" %}
```
