docs/maps.md, before:

# Map visualization

Powered by Leaflet.js, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet

Following best practices listed in the Leaflet guide to accessibility, https://leafletjs.com/examples/accessibility/

With plugins: 

- search, https://github.com/naomap/leaflet-fusesearch
- cluster, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.markercluster
- cluster plugin (for search and cluster to work together), https://github.com/ghybs/Leaflet.MarkerCluster.Freezable
- full screen, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.fullscreen

Set base configuration in `_data/theme.yml` map section, including:

```
latitude: 46.727485 #to determine center of map
longitude: -117.014185 #to determine center of map
zoom-level: 5 # zoom level for map 
map-search: true # not suggested with large collections
map-search-fuzziness: 0.35 # fuzzy search range from 1 = anything to 0 = exact match only
map-cluster: true # suggested for large collection or with many items in same location
map-cluster-radius: 25 # size of clusters, from ~ 10 to 80
```

These `theme` options will load the correct CSS and JS for leaflet features, while setting some JS configuration variables. 
`map-cluster-radius` sets the `maxClusterRadius` which corresponds to the maximum radius a cluster can cover in pixels on the map.
A smaller radius will create more, smaller clusters, and increasing will create fewer, larger clusters on the map.

Next, configure the display using `_data/map-config.csv`, which controls the metadata displayed on object popups and included in search:

- `field`: matches a column name in the metadata csv that will be displayed in object popups.
- `display`: display name for the field to appear on popup. if blank, field will not be displayed (but could be used in search)
- `search`: `true` or `false`/blank. If theme has `map-search` as `true`, then fields with true in this column will be indexed and displayed on the map search feature.

Because of the way markers are handled, for larger collections it is strongly suggested to turn search off and cluster on.
Cluster makes loading and navigating the map significantly more efficient.

Object pages that have lat/long will generate a "View on Map" button link. 
These link to the `map.html` page with a query string created from their lat long and objectid.
If the url includes a query string, it will be parsed and set as the map view box with full zoom and open the popup.

For example: 
`/map.html?location=46.726113,-117.015671&marker=example_004`

This can be created using the Liquid:
`{{ '/map.html?location=' | append: page.latitude  | append: ',' | append: page.longitude | append: '&marker=' | append: page.objectid | relative_url }}`

## Customizing the Base Map

You can customize the base maps by editing the template code in "_includes/js/map-js.html".

There is three parts to add a new one:

1. Set up a variable containing the map layer information. For some example free base maps that follow the same pattern as we are using, you can copy the variable from [Leaflet Providers Preview](https://leaflet-extras.github.io/leaflet-providers/preview/).
2. Add name to the base map switcher. The `baseMaps` variable sets up the names that appear in the switcher that appears in the upper right of the map. It follows the pattern of `"Display Name": Map_Layer_var_name`.
3. Set the default base map. This is usually set in "theme.yml" as the `map-base` option. If you add a new layer variable, use that name instead of the default ones. Alternatively, in map-js.html you can edit the variable name used to load the base map (which is next after setting up the `baseMaps` var).

Keep in mind that some of the base maps in the free [Leaflet Providers Preview](https://leaflet-extras.github.io/leaflet-providers/preview/) may have usage limitations--check the [Leaflet Providers readme for notes](https://github.com/leaflet-extras/leaflet-providers).
If you want to do more customization, check the [Leaflet docs](https://leafletjs.com/reference.html), and [Leaflet basemap providers plugins](https://leafletjs.com/plugins.html#basemap-providers).

Commit message:

Note auto-center-map option for docs

docs/maps.md, after:

# Map visualization

Powered by Leaflet.js, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet

Following best practices listed in the Leaflet guide to accessibility, https://leafletjs.com/examples/accessibility/

With plugins: 

- search, https://github.com/naomap/leaflet-fusesearch
- cluster, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.markercluster
- cluster plugin (for search and cluster to work together), https://github.com/ghybs/Leaflet.MarkerCluster.Freezable
- full screen, https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet.fullscreen

Set base configuration in `_data/theme.yml` map section, including:

```
latitude: 46.727485 #to determine center of map
longitude: -117.014185 #to determine center of map
auto-center-map: true # have the map auto fit all features into its view, overrides configured latitude and longitude, will not do anything if location coordinates were specified in the URL query parameters
zoom-level: 5 # zoom level for map 
map-search: true # not suggested with large collections
map-search-fuzziness: 0.35 # fuzzy search range from 1 = anything to 0 = exact match only
map-cluster: true # suggested for large collection or with many items in same location
map-cluster-radius: 25 # size of clusters, from ~ 10 to 80
```

These `theme` options will load the correct CSS and JS for leaflet features, while setting some JS configuration variables. 
`map-cluster-radius` sets the `maxClusterRadius` which corresponds to the maximum radius a cluster can cover in pixels on the map.
A smaller radius will create more, smaller clusters, and increasing will create fewer, larger clusters on the map.

Next, configure the display using `_data/map-config.csv`, which controls the metadata displayed on object popups and included in search:

- `field`: matches a column name in the metadata csv that will be displayed in object popups.
- `display`: display name for the field to appear on popup. if blank, field will not be displayed (but could be used in search)
- `search`: `true` or `false`/blank. If theme has `map-search` as `true`, then fields with true in this column will be indexed and displayed on the map search feature.

Because of the way markers are handled, for larger collections it is strongly suggested to turn search off and cluster on.
Cluster makes loading and navigating the map significantly more efficient.

Object pages that have lat/long will generate a "View on Map" button link. 
These link to the `map.html` page with a query string created from their lat long and objectid.
If the url includes a query string, it will be parsed and set as the map view box with full zoom and open the popup.

For example: 
`/map.html?location=46.726113,-117.015671&marker=example_004`

This can be created using the Liquid:
`{{ '/map.html?location=' | append: page.latitude  | append: ',' | append: page.longitude | append: '&marker=' | append: page.objectid | relative_url }}`

## Customizing the Base Map

You can customize the base maps by editing the template code in "_includes/js/map-js.html".

There is three parts to add a new one:

1. Set up a variable containing the map layer information. For some example free base maps that follow the same pattern as we are using, you can copy the variable from [Leaflet Providers Preview](https://leaflet-extras.github.io/leaflet-providers/preview/).
2. Add name to the base map switcher. The `baseMaps` variable sets up the names that appear in the switcher that appears in the upper right of the map. It follows the pattern of `"Display Name": Map_Layer_var_name`.
3. Set the default base map. This is usually set in "theme.yml" as the `map-base` option. If you add a new layer variable, use that name instead of the default ones. Alternatively, in map-js.html you can edit the variable name used to load the base map (which is next after setting up the `baseMaps` var).

Keep in mind that some of the base maps in the free [Leaflet Providers Preview](https://leaflet-extras.github.io/leaflet-providers/preview/) may have usage limitations--check the [Leaflet Providers readme for notes](https://github.com/leaflet-extras/leaflet-providers).
If you want to do more customization, check the [Leaflet docs](https://leafletjs.com/reference.html), and [Leaflet basemap providers plugins](https://leafletjs.com/plugins.html#basemap-providers).
