docs/rake_tasks.md, before:

# Rake

[Rake](https://github.com/ruby/rake) is a task automation tool written in Ruby.
It is a standard part of all Ruby installs, so if you are using Jekyll, you have it.
Adding a "Rakefile" allows you to add commands to automate repetitive tasks.

CollectionBuilder-CSV provides a "Rakefile" with tasks to help set up and deploy your digital collection.
This allows you to run `rake` commands inside this repository:

## deploy

`rake deploy`, is a short cut to run the full Jekyll command `JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build`.
Using the production environment causes template to include analytics and additional machine markup in build, which can take considerably longer than `jekyll s`.

## generate_derivatives

`rake generate_derivatives`, automates the creation of optimized, small and thumbnail images from all images and PDFs contained in the "objects/" directory in this repository. (Note: Optimization is not supported for Windows users.)
It outputs the derivatives to "objects/small" and "objects/thumbs".
Please ensure you have the requirements installed and available on the commandline before running!

Requirements:

- **ImageMagick**, [download](https://imagemagick.org/script/download.php)
- **Ghostscript**, [download AGPL version](https://www.ghostscript.com/download/gsdnld.html)

The following configuration options are available:

| option | description | default value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| thumbs_size | the dimensions of the generated thumbnail images | 300x300 |
| small_size | the dimensions of the generated small images | 800x800 |
| density | the pixel density used to generate PDF thumbnails | 300 |
| missing | whether to only generate derivatives that don't already exist | true |
| compress_originals | Optimize the original image files | false |

You can configure any or all of these options by specifying them in the rake command like so:

```
rake generate_derivatives[<thumb_size>,<small_size>,<density>,<missing>,<compress_originals>]
```

Here's an example of overriding all of the option values:

```
rake generate_derivatives[100x100,300x300,70,false,false]
```

It's also possible to specify individual options that you want to override, leaving the others at their defaults.
For example, if you only wanted to set `density` to `70`, you can do:

```
rake generate_derivatives[,,70]
```

The mini_magick Gem is used to interface with ImageMagick so it supports both current version 7 and legacy versions (which are common on Linux). 
The image_optim Gem is used to optimize images using the optimization libraries provided by the image_optim_pack Gem. 
image_optim_pack does not provide binaries for Windows, so optimization is skipped when using the rake task on Windows.

Commit message:

update generate_derivatives default thumb size new bootstrap5 container is wider than old theme, thus Browse card thumbs are now too small. this increases to actual rendered size.

docs/rake_tasks.md, after:

# Rake

[Rake](https://github.com/ruby/rake) is a task automation tool written in Ruby.
It is a standard part of all Ruby installs, so if you are using Jekyll, you have it.
Adding a "Rakefile" allows you to add commands to automate repetitive tasks.

CollectionBuilder-CSV provides a "Rakefile" with tasks to help set up and deploy your digital collection.
This allows you to run `rake` commands inside this repository:

## deploy

`rake deploy`, is a short cut to run the full Jekyll command `JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build`.
Using the production environment causes template to include analytics and additional machine markup in build, which can take considerably longer than `jekyll s`.

## generate_derivatives

`rake generate_derivatives`, automates the creation of optimized, small and thumbnail images from all images and PDFs contained in the "objects/" directory in this repository. (Note: Optimization is not supported for Windows users.)
It outputs the derivatives to "objects/small" and "objects/thumbs".
Please ensure you have the requirements installed and available on the commandline before running!

Requirements:

- **ImageMagick**, [download](https://imagemagick.org/script/download.php)
- **Ghostscript**, [download AGPL version](https://www.ghostscript.com/download/gsdnld.html) (required for processing PDF items)

The following configuration options are available:

| option | description | default value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| thumbs_size | the max dimensions of the generated thumbnail images, using ImageMagick resizing syntax | 450x |
| small_size | the max dimensions of the generated small images, using ImageMagick resizing syntax | 800x800 |
| density | the pixel density used to generate PDF thumbnails | 300 |
| missing | whether to only generate derivatives that don't already exist | true |
| compress_originals | Optimize the original image files | false |

The default image sizes are based on the max pixel width of the images where they will appear in the base CollectionBuilder features (e.g. the width of thumb is based on the card image top featured on the Browse page).

You can configure any or all of these options by specifying them in the rake command like so:

```
rake generate_derivatives[<thumb_size>,<small_size>,<density>,<missing>,<compress_originals>]
```

Here's an example of overriding all of the option values:

```
rake generate_derivatives[100x100,300x300,70,false,false]
```

It's also possible to specify individual options that you want to override, leaving the others at their defaults.
For example, if you only wanted to set `density` to `70`, you can do:

```
rake generate_derivatives[,,70]
```

The mini_magick Gem is used to interface with ImageMagick so it supports both current version 7 and legacy versions (which are common on Linux). 
The image_optim Gem is used to optimize images using the optimization libraries provided by the image_optim_pack Gem. 
image_optim_pack does not provide binaries for Windows, so optimization is skipped when using the rake task on Windows.
